IIAB Admin Console - Control
============================

The options in this menu are for immediate control of the Server.

**Note:** You can reboot or power off the server before the start up finishes, as soon as the buttons become solid red.

Reboot Server
-------------

Clicking this button will reboot the server. You should **Click the Refresh Button** on your browser after a minute or so to verify that the server has restarted and to reload any configuration data that might have changed.

Power Off Server
----------------

Clicking this button will cause the server to shutdown.  The server will wait 5 seconds before initiating the shutdown and the entire process can take up to a minute to complete.

Starting Application
--------------------

Displays a log of the commands used to start up the Admin Console and whether they succeeded or not.

Errors are displayed if the server is not available or the command server is not running or not ready.

TailscaleControl
----------------

Tailscale is a Virtual Private Network (VPN). It can be installed as part of IIAB, and you can manually install it on any of your other machines.

Of course, to operate it requires an internet connection.

### Do this First

This panel only works if Tailscale is installed. You can do so on the Configure menu.

### How it works

Once Tailscale is installed, configured, and turned on, your IIAB server will become part of a private network with an IP address like 100.64.x.x

Any machine on that network will be able to connect to any other over the internet, but other machines will not.

Machines authenticate with a key generated by Tailscale which is valid for one of three login URLs:

* IIAB Tailscale Login - This is the easiest because it is already setup; you just request a key. However, all IIAB servers are on the same network.
* Tailscale Default Login - If you or someone else creates a Tailscale account and generates your own key, you can have your own Tailscale network.
* Custom Login URL - You can also run your own authentication server and generate your own keys. Most people will not want to do this.

Configure the parameters below and click the button that will either say **Turn Tailscale ON.** or **Turn Tailscale OFF.**  depending on the state of Tailscale, does what it says.

### Parameters

**Tailscale Login** - There is a drop down to select one of the authentication URLs.

**Custom Tailscale Login URL** - Only used for Custom Login.

**Tailscale Auth Key** - The authentication key. You will get this from someone or Tailscale online and paste it here.

**Local Tailscale Hostname** - Give this IIAB a unique name on the Tailscale network. All IIAB servers will be named 'box', so we want a different name on the network. If you leave this blank the server provide the name iiab-<datetime>.

### List of Connections

A list of machines connected to your VPN appears at the bottom of the panel.

Raspberry Pi Only
-----------------

On a Raspberry Pi several other links appear:

* Wifi Control - Use this to Change IIAB Internal Hotspot Password.
* Wifi Control - Also use this to Setup Internet Access WiFi Connection.
* Bluetooth Control - Use this to turn network over Bluetooth on and off. You can run Admin Console over Bluetooth.
