# Admin Console Overview

## Relation to IIAB

The Admin Console is intended primarily for use with Internet in a Box, though there is significant soft coding that would allow it to be rewritten for other environments. Its main purpose is to permit an authenticated and authorized user to perform operations on the IIAB server that require root permission and to report on the state of those operations and the server in general. The operations supported are related to server configuration, installation of content, and management of the menuing system for accessing installed content.

## Components

The Admin Console has two main components, a Console which provides the user interface, and a Command Server that carries out the user's wishes.

The Console is a single-page application (SPA), which means that all html is loaded initially and various panels are displayed with javascript. All interaction with the Command Server is undertaken with ajax functions.

The Command Server is a systemd service written in python3 along with attendant scripts and a wrapper for access via the web server.

Both are further described in this documentation.

## Installation

To install the Admin Console clone the repo (below), cd to the iiab-admin-console directory, and run ./install.

This will run ansible, which should have been installed when IIAB was installed, in order to install the components of Admin Console and download the current versions of several content catalogs.

## File Locations

After installation the Admin Console is in /opt/admin/, with subdirectories cmdsrv and console for the two main components.

The menuing system files install to /library/www/html/js-menu/ and an initial home menu is in /library/www/html/home/.

## Repos

The code can be found in the git repo https://github.com/iiab/iiab-admin-console. This repo has a role directory for each of the Admin Console components.

Globally shared menu definitions are in https://github.com/iiab-share/js-menu-files.

Catalog information is in https://github.com/iiab-share/iiab-content.
